---
_schema: index
title: Taxonomy
linkTitle: Taxonomy
weight: 7
description: Structure the content using taxonomies like tags, categories, labels.
categories:
  - Taxonomy
  - Tags
  - Categories
tags:
  - Tags
  - Categories
  - Taxonomy
---
DocsyCannon supports Hugo’s Taxonomies (see:&nbsp;[https://gohugo.io/content-management/taxonomies/](https://gohugo.io/content-management/taxonomies/)) in its docs and blog section. You can see the default layout and can test the behavior of the generated links on this page.

## Terminology

To understand the usage of taxonomies you should understand the following terminology:

**Taxonomy**\: a categorization that can be used to classify content - e.g.: Tags, Categories, Projects, People

**Term**\: a key within the taxonomy - e.g. within projects: Project A, Project B

**Value**\: a piece of content assigned to a term - e.g. a page of your site, that belongs to a specific project

A example taxonomy for a movie website you can find in the official Hugo docs:&nbsp;[https://gohugo.io/content-management/taxonomies/#example-taxonomy-movie-website](https://gohugo.io/content-management/taxonomies/#example-taxonomy-movie-website)

## Parameters

There are various parameter to control the functionality of taxonomies in the project&nbsp;[configuration file](https://gohugo.io/getting-started/configuration/#configuration-file).

By default taxonomies for&nbsp;`tags`&nbsp;and&nbsp;`categories`&nbsp;are enabled in Hugo (see:&nbsp;[https://gohugo.io/content-management/taxonomies/#default-taxonomies)](https://gohugo.io/content-management/taxonomies/#default-taxonomies&#41;).&nbsp;

<div><div><div><pre data-language="yaml"><code class="language-yaml"><strong>disableKinds</strong><strong>:</strong><u>
</u><u>  </u>- taxonomy<u>
</u><u>  </u>- taxonomyTerm</code></pre></div></div></div>

If you want to disable taxonomies in DocsyCannon you have to uncomment this line in your project’s config file. Then the taxonomy pages for&nbsp;`tags`&nbsp;and&nbsp;`categories`&nbsp;will be generated by Hugo. If you want to use other taxonomies you have to define them in your&nbsp;[configuration file](https://gohugo.io/getting-started/configuration/#configuration-file). If you want to use beside your own taxonomies also the default taxonomies&nbsp;`tags`&nbsp;and&nbsp;`categories`, you also have to define them beside your own taxonomies. You need to provide both the plural and singular labels for each taxonomy.

With the following example you define a additional taxonomy&nbsp;`projects`&nbsp;beside the default taxonomies&nbsp;`tags`&nbsp;and&nbsp;`categories`\:

<div><div><div><pre data-language="yaml"><code class="language-yaml"><strong>taxonomies</strong><strong>:</strong><u>
  </u><strong>tag</strong><strong>:</strong><u> </u>tags<u>
</u><u>  </u><strong>category</strong><strong>:</strong><u> </u>categories<u>
</u><u>  </u><strong>project</strong><strong>:</strong><u> </u>projects</code>
</pre></div></div></div>

<div><div><div> </div></div></div>

## Multi language support for taxonomies

The taxonomy terms associated content gets only counted and linked WITHIN the language! The control parameters for the taxonomy support can also get assigned language specific.